\newpage
\section*{Acknowledgements}
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{\numberline{}Acknowledgments}

I would like to thank the \MyUrl{http://panoramix.univ-paris1.fr/CRINFO/}
{department of computing science} at the university of Paris 1 for allowing
me the time and freedom necessary to achieve this project.

I am grateful to the members of the \MyUrl{http://loco.inria.fr/}{Loco
  project} at \MyUrl{http://www.inria.fr/Unites/ROCQUENCOURT-eng.html}
{INRIA Rocquencourt} for their encouragement. Their involvement in this work
led to useful feedback and exchange.

I would particularly like to thank
\MyUrl{http://www.sju.edu/\~{}jhodgson}{Jonathan Hodgson} for the time and
effort he put into the proofreading of this manual. His suggestions, both
regarding ISO technical aspects as well as the language in which it was
expressed, proved invaluable.

The on-line HTML version of this document was created using
\MyUrl{http://pauillac.inria.fr/\home{maranget}/hevea/}{\hevea} developed by Luc Maranget who kindly devoted so much
of his time extending the capabilities of {\hevea} in order to handle such a
sizeable manual.

Jean-Christophe Aude kindly improved the visual aspect of both the
illustrations and the GNU Prolog web pages.

Thanks to Richard A. O'Keefe for his advice regarding the implementation of
some Prolog built-in predicates and for suggesting me the in-place
installation feature.

Many thanks to the following contributors:

\begin{itemize}

\item \MyEMail{clive@laluna.demon.co.uk}{Clive Cox} and
\MyUrl{http://www.rano.org/}{Edmund Grimley Evans} for their port to 
ix86/SCO.

\item \MyEMail{nollinge@ens-lyon.fr}{Nicolas Ollinger} to for his port to
ix86/FreeBSD.

\item \MyEMail{brook@nmsu.edu}{Brook Milligan} for his port to
ix86/NetBSD and for general configuration improvements.

\item \MyUrl{http://www.speech.sri.com/people/stolcke/}{Andreas Stolcke} for
his port to ix86/Solaris.

\end{itemize}

Many thanks to all those people at \MyUrl{http://www.gnu.org}{GNU} who helped
me to finalize the GNU Prolog project.

Finally, I would like to thank everybody who tested preliminary releases and
helped me to put the finishing touches to this system.

